# Portfolio
Westminster College Portfolio

[MIPS Number Adder](MIPS/)

While this project may be small, my reason for including it is that it encompasses a broader idea of what I learned in my Computer Architecture course. Since my introduction to assembly level language a few years ago, I have always been extremely interested in low level languages. Learning MIPS was a fun and rewarding task as it truly tests your problem solving and critical thinking skills. You must be able to examine and interpret code and understand what it is actually doing while testing and debugging. MIPS, along with the other concepts in this class, helped me attain a system level understanding of the computer. We furthered our exploration of the relationship between hardware and software components in a system and how the hardware components are able to implement and execute a program. I feel this low level understanding of a computer system is extremely important and is often forgotten by many high level software developers, and it is for that reason that I have chosen to include this project in my portfolio. 

[Rate My Run](https://github.com/kyleottmann/SoxAppCode)

Rate My Run is an iOS application that can be used to rate the conditions of individual ski runs at a ski resort. This was a semester-long project developed by SOX, a team of myself and three other students in a software development class. I am choosing to incorporate this project into my portfolio as it was a significant learning experience in my college career. Our team experienced common challenges of group dynamics and scheduling issues, pushing us to be more open, accepting, and versatile when working with others. Another challenge that played a large roll in this project was selecting and learning appropriate technologies. In most programming assignments we are asked to use a specific language or technology that we are generally familiar with, though this was not the case on this project. We made the decision to use languages such as Swift and technologies like the Play Framework that were new to our whole team. This led me to further develop effective problem solving skills especially while gaining experience working in a group setting. Ultimately, this project helped me understand the concepts and techniques of software design. 

[Ciphers and the RSA Cryptosystem](RSA-Ciphers/)

This was a research project with a small code component that explored the mathematical history of the RSA Cipher. The report talks about the history of RSA, it's use, and it's mathematics. For the programing component of the project, I created a Java GUI program to take in prime numbers and return the mathematical parts of the RSA cipher. This project furthered my effective problem solving skills in relation to implementing and deconstructing an algorithm and testing the solution. I enjoyed the research component of this project and how it led into strong mathematics and a piece of the research findings presented as a Java program, leading me to choose it as one of my portfolio projects.

[Runder](Runder/)

When tasked with completing a project involving databases, my project partner and I decided to go with a skiing theme. Runder is a small website that allows you to pick a ski resort and then select how difficult of skiing terrain you are looking for. Once you select your difficulty level, you will be presented with all of the runs that are rated at that level and information associated with each run such as lifts or backcountry access. This project was a good test of effectively dealing with last minute changes. Our group started out with three people and after one of them disappeared at the last minute, my partner and I were left to complete their part of the project. With collaboration and teamwork, the project was successful and for that reason I am including it in my portfolio. 

[SwimCheck](../swimcheck)

SwimCheck is a web application for checking in athletes at aquatic sporting events. When deciding on a topic for my senior capstone project, I decided to theme it around my current work that I do in aquatics. Swim meets are plagued by resource waste, errors, staffing shortage, and time delays. This application aims to fix many of those issues as it decreases the amount of staff and resources needed. When athletes use the application to check in, it reduces errors in the check-in process as it removes much of the human and pen and paper aspect of the process. I chose to include this project in my portfolio for many reasons. Working on this project, my critical, analytical and integrative thinking skills were thoroughly challenged and allowed me to develop them in a positive way. This was also the first large scale programming project I have taken on individually and when faced with challenges along the way, it helped me grow as a person all while teaching me valuable life lessons - like always backing up your code! One of the main takeaways from this project is my understanding of the concepts and techniques of full-stack software design and how each piece of the technology stack integrates and plays a part in the final outcome. Though this project is completed as far as the educational requirements, I plan to continue working on it and implement it at future aquatic events. 
